### Acquisition, Accumulation, and Territory

In Minecraft, many of the interactions a player has with the world are about accumulation.  Minecraft portrays accumulation uncritically by having it be the only way in which you interact with the environment, rather than either giving more ways of interacting or critically acknowledging this limitation.  The loop of minecraft, like that of a resource managing game, involves collecting items to make into tools that allow you to get more items, which then of course aid in getting more items.  This obviously a very simplified view: minecraft has a finite tech tree, there's only a handful tools, but this loop encourages players to conceive of the world as resources to be taken in order to empower themselves.  This supports the colonialist narrative that technological progress is inevitable and right, and that people can and should immediately replicate the conditions of a "civilized space" wherever they go.

In minecraft, collecting blocks (and many collectable things are blocks) literally reshapes the world by removing a chunk of it.  If you mine stone from one mountain for a long enough time, that mountain will disappear.  However, unlike some games, where you collect resources exclusively to turn them into something else, minecraft allows you to literally put the blocks back. You could, if for some reason you decided to spend a lot of time on a fundamentally useless project, and took /very/ good notes before you started, mine away an entire mountain and then put it back exactly the way it was.  Of course, no one would do this.  The point of placing blocks is not to undo your actions, but to build something new elsewhere.  To build a stone house, you need to remove the stone from somewhere else, and re - place it in the shape of a house.  Just like in real life, you cannot live in a space without altering it.

Unlike real life, however, in minecraft, you have access to infinite resources.  If you see something in the world, you can take it without consequence.  Some things are renewable, such as trees.  If you want infinite wood, you can plant new saplings every time you cut down a tree, and always have trees nearby.  However, it is possible to remove all of the iron from an area, and to get more, you have to expand your area.  Unlike the Civilization games, there is no formal representation of what area belongs to the player / what the player controls, because there is no concept of anyone else it could belong to, or with whom you would negotiate or share.  Expanding your area of control might involve building farms or animal pens further away, lighting paths from one place to another, carving tunnels to different areas, or creating minetracks to facilitate faster transportation of oneself/resources.  So while there is no outline on a map saying "this is your territory," there can still feel like a difference between the place which you've modified for aesthetic, productive, or safety reasons, and the unknown rest of the world.  This encourages the claiming or even civilizing of territory.  It enforces the ideas of settler colonialism that there was no one here before colonizers, that colonizers "improve" the land they take, and if there are others, they are either mindless and hostile, or mindless and docile, and neither can or should be negotiated with.  Minecraft, through its mechanics, leads the player to live out myths of settler colonialism, and because it doesn't call attention to this, it normalizes this behavior.

