### Monsters and Aggression
   The mechanics that underlie the monsters and enemies in minecraft perpetuate two main colonialist philosophies. First, the notion that there are sentient beings, in the context of colonialism these beings are Indigenous people, that are inherently evil or morally subordinate to others. The second being that explorers justify actions though a self-defense mindset when involved in violent interactions with Indigenous people. 
   There are three primary categories of mobs in minecraft: passive, neutral and hostile. Passive mobs pose no immediate threat to players, and will usually flee upon attack. However, they do drop beneficial items to players. The neutral mobs will only attack the player if provoked, but they will attack other mobs. Hostile mobs will attack the player as soon as the player is within a certain range (all this info is from wiki page). In particular, the question that must be asked is, how these mechanics compel the user to exhibit colonialist behaviors, and, therefore, more broadly ask how these mechanics perpetuate colonialism? 
   Looking first at passive mobs, an operational logic is created, through the mechanics behind passive mobs, which provides an incentive to users to behave with colonialist tendencies. When attacked and killed, passive mobs with drop beneficial items. There are two mechanics at play here: that the passive mobs will not initiate violence towards the player and that they passive mobs drop useful items. Together, these mechanics turn into the operational logic of if you kill a  passive mob, you have access to their resources. The game mechanics clearly reward violently attacking harmless beings until death, so that the player can acquire their goods. This is one example of how the game influences players to behave with a colonialist mindset: even though the player does not know who existed first, themselves or the mob, the player is encouraged to kill the passive mob because the game mechanics write out that the player will have a higher chance of doing well in the game if they do. 
   Considering next the neutral mobs, the idea of categorical polarization, introduced by Edward Said in Orientalism, can be introduced to the conversation. Categorical polarization is described by Said as ׂסa method of dividing human realityׂס (45). It is a way to separate oneself or culture from others. At the same time, this separation diminishes the validity of the other person or their culture. In essence, Said is defining the ׂסusׂס versus ׂסthemׂס mindset. In Minecraft, this sense of separation exists. Rather than giving the beings in the neutral mob unique personalities, behaviors and appearances, they are most identical. As a mechanic, this may not necessarily compel the user to attack the neutral mobs, however, it guides the player towards a categorical mindset. Instead of considering each creature an individual, the player sees each being that they come into contact with as a group member. This pattern of thought lays the groundwork for justification of colonialism: if the player considers the neutral mobs to be of lower moral or ethical standing than themselves, then any assertion of dominance over that mob member is valid. The individual beings need not be considered, as they are a part of the group. 
   Lastly, a self-defense justification explains violent behavior towards the hostile mobs in the game. The operational logic behind hostile mobs is more straightforward than passive mobs, as the hostile mobs pose an active threat to the player. The mechanic of having the hostile mobs attack a user once within a certain range in coordination with the mechanic of rewarding the player through looting and gaining experience points clearly implies that in order to ׂסwinׂס the game, or at least have a successful run, the user should kill hostile mobs. Just avoiding the hostile mobs is as beneficial to the player, as there is not a lucrative aspect to peaceful avoidance. These hostile mobs support a self-defense justification of colonialism. If the mob is posing a threat to the players safety, and they can be rewarded for killing them- why would they not? 
   In conclusion, the presented game mechanics create operational logics that foster a digital environment which not only subtly supports colonialism, but actively perpetuates a colonialist mindset. Significantly, game mechanics are introduced at the design level, and are flushed out through every link in the development process. In order to remove the colonialist mindset from games, alternative mechanics must be introduced from the conception of the game. 

